We will start by right clicking on theNewBoston Csharp Beginner Tutorial, in Solution Explorer, and choosing 
Add, New Item from the popup box.  Then choose New Folder and name it Tutorial 2, then in the Tutorial 2 right
click and add another folder and name it Images; to hold our images.  In the Tutorial 2 folder we will add a 
text file, by right clicking, then add, New Item and choosing Text File and name it, 'lesson 2 notes and 
highlights from the comments area.txt'.

We can also add a form, in the same manner, add, new item, and Windows form, to practice, resizing the form.
We resize the form by grabbing it from the small circles on the sides or in between the sides, and draging
them, to the desired size (see Picture in images folder).  We can also drag buttons and other objects, to the
size we want using this same method.

Next we will go to our toolbox on the right side of the screen, and drag a button, from the list, on to our
'form'.  You can also click the button and release it, in the toolbox, then go into the forms' area, click it,
and drag the button to the size you want.  Click in the center of the button, and drag, to move into place.
You will see lines between the buttons, to be able to line them up.  When near the forms borders, while aligning
arrows will popup when equidistant, from the side border is equal to the horrizontal forms distance, to the 
border.  Hold down alt while dragging to center things without the alignment, popup tools.

To change the color or text we go to the properties panel on the bottom right of the screen, and click and choose
what we want the color to be or the text to have writen in it.  There are many attributes you can change in the
properties panel, experiment with them.

We can also debug, which will check you code for errors the run the code to compile it.  To do this click the green
arrow, in the main menu, or click the f5 key.  Click f5 again to stop debuging.




*********************** highlights from the comments area ***************************




I hope you would have figured out the solution by now but in case you haven't, you cannot use special characters in the 
project's name.  So using "Eric's First Project" would cause this error because of the apostrophe. 






What is a form?


There's a console application (most used) and there's also windows forms! Basically in windows forms you can add a button, label, 
text box,... Which you can set properties to! Let's say you put a button inside the form, you can double click it and it will take 
you to the coding part! You can make it do whatever you want when you click it, drag your mouse over it,...







Great tutorial and very helpful. To all the haters criticizing the use of drag and drop IDEs, please stop it. Programming is about 
efficiency and elegance. Creating controls and positioning them in code is horribly inefficient. Letting the IDE do the grunt work 
for you so that you can concentrate on solving the real business problem is not only the smart way to go but it also makes programming
more enjoyable. With Visual Studio you can create console applications as well as GUI based applications depending on the project 
requirements. No one is impressed that you waste time manually creating the UI in code when you could be coding business logic and 
rules into your application and getting useful work done.

I agree that manually coding the entire user interface would be a complete waste of time, and it would be smart to use an IDE's drag
and drop functions. However I believe that one should know how to actually code user interfaces by hand, that way the individual has 
the knowledge behind it. Technically this is a C# tutorial, therefore he should be teaching C# not the IDE's drag and drop functions.
Drag and drop should come at a later stage when the individual knows the programming (syntax, classes, variables, etc) itself.

Pointless...if you're going to waste the time on how to develop a UI from scratch and then stop because you've come to understand how 
it works and go to using the drag & drop, then there was no point in learning it in the first place...you may as well have been using
D&D from the start and ignoring how it works, since it's going to work for you either way and you'll get the same use out of it 
anyway.

If it's not required, don't do it. In the case of VB and the other .net languages, they were made for rapid program development, 
not sitting around tweaking where buttons are placed, guessing randomly on what coordinate to place them all.

Actually typing code, knowing how to use variables, classes, constructors, objects, and abstraction are all required elements for 
computer programming jobs. So yes, it is necessary to know these skills. You may not code a user interface by scratch, but you may 
need to code a physics engine one day. And believe me that is NOT drag and drop. That requires heavy linear algebra and a vast 
knowledge of trigonometry and computer programming. No drag and drops allowed there. There is no way that you can argue that somebody 
that wants to learn programming doesn't have to learn the actual language itself. That is nonsense.


No one said anything about not learning the actual language. And GUI concepts don't apply to calculations. You're 
conflating the user interface with the programming logic. You can drag and drop a button on a form and then place the computational 
code inside its OnClick event. 


I understand where you are coming from when many of you are saying that it is a waste of time to learn how to program it by scratch 
when you can just use the GUI. But that is like saying why learn math when you can just have a website do the calculations for you. 
That GUI program will not always be there for you. In the event that you don't have a drag and drop programming style, then you will
need to do it by hand. This requires that you know every aspect of the language, and programming concepts. You will not learn that 
from using a drag and drop programming concept.






